# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

* [`deferred_resources`](#deferred_resources): **WARNING:** This module is intended to help meet common policy requirements for resources being either present or absent on a system and is 

### Resource types

* [`deferred_resources`](#deferred_resources): *** DANGER ***  THIS RESOURCE TYPE DOES THINGS THAT MAY BE CONFUSING MAKE SURE YOU FULLY UNDERSTAND HOW IT WORKS PRIOR TO USING IT  *** DANGE

## Classes

### <a name="deferred_resources"></a>`deferred_resources`

**WARNING:** This module is intended to help meet common policy requirements
for resources being either present or absent on a system and is not meant
for general usage. Make sure you understand the ramifications of what this
module does to the Puppet catalog prior to using it outside of the SIMP
framework.

This class takes a Hash of resources, keyed by resource type. After the
entire puppet catalog has been compiled, any listed resource that is not
already declared in the catalog will be added to the catalog.

Resources that already exist in the catalog are never touched unless an
entry sets the reserved `override` option to `true`, in which case only the
attributes specified on that entry will be updated on the existing resource.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `deferred_resources` class:

* [`resources`](#-deferred_resources--resources)
* [`default_options`](#-deferred_resources--default_options)
* [`mode`](#-deferred_resources--mode)
* [`log_level`](#-deferred_resources--log_level)

##### <a name="-deferred_resources--resources"></a>`resources`

Data type: `Hash[String[1], Hash[String[1], Optional[Hash]]]`

A Hash of resources, keyed by resource type, to process after the catalog
has been compiled

* Any native resource type may be used and any mix of resource types may
  be passed in the same Hash
* Each entry is a Hash of resource titles to (optional) resource
  attributes, exactly as you would declare the resource normally
* The `override` attribute name is **reserved** as a control option and is
  never passed to the underlying resource:

  **DANGEROUS** - READ CAREFULLY

  Setting `override: true` on an entry will force all of the attributes
  specified on that entry onto a matching resource that **already exists**
  in the catalog. An attribute explicitly set to `undef` (`~` in YAML)
  will be *removed* from the existing resource (e.g. unsetting `source`
  when specifying `content`). This is basically a controlled resource
  collector and absolutely must not be taken lightly when used since it
  will affect existing resources in your catalog. If you want to be
  explicit, use a Resource Collector and do not set this.

@example Ensure packages and users using Hieradata, overriding one file
  deferred_resources::resources:
    package:
      telnet:
        ensure: 'absent'
      tmpwatch:
        ensure: 'installed'
    user:
      ftp:
        ensure: 'absent'
    file:
      /etc/motd:
        ensure: 'file'
        content: 'Authorized use only'
        source: ~
        override: true

Default value: `{}`

##### <a name="-deferred_resources--default_options"></a>`default_options`

Data type: `Hash[String[1], Hash]`

A Hash of attributes, keyed by resource type, that will be applied to
every resource of that type in `$resources`

* Attributes set directly on an entry in `$resources` take precedence
* May include `override` to set the default override behavior for every
  resource of a type

Default value: `{}`

##### <a name="-deferred_resources--mode"></a>`mode`

Data type: `Enum['warning','enforcing']`

If set to `enforcing` then this class will take action on the system. If
set to `warning` a message will be printed noting what would have taken
place on the system but the catalog will not be updated.

Default value: `'warning'`

##### <a name="-deferred_resources--log_level"></a>`log_level`

Data type: `Simplib::PuppetLogLevel`

Set the log level for warning messages

Default value: `'info'`

## Resource types

### <a name="deferred_resources"></a>`deferred_resources`

*** DANGER ***

THIS RESOURCE TYPE DOES THINGS THAT MAY BE CONFUSING MAKE SURE YOU FULLY
UNDERSTAND HOW IT WORKS PRIOR TO USING IT

*** DANGER ***

WARNING: This type is **NOT** meant to be called directly. Please use the
helper classes in the module.

This type will process after the catalog has been compiled but before it
is applied.  It takes a list of resources and checks for the existence of
that resource in the compiled catalog. If the resource has already been
defined in the catalog, it prints out a message that an action will
not be performed.

A resource entry may set the reserved control option `override` to `true`,
in which case a matching resource that already exists in the catalog will
have all of the attributes specified on the entry forced onto it. An
attribute with a `nil` value will be *removed* from the existing resource
(e.g. unsetting `source` when specifying `content`). `override` is never
passed on to the created resource.

If mode is set to `warning`, instead of adding resources to the catalog,
it prints out a list of resources that would have been added.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `deferred_resources` type.

* [`default_options`](#-deferred_resources--default_options)
* [`log_level`](#-deferred_resources--log_level)
* [`mode`](#-deferred_resources--mode)
* [`name`](#-deferred_resources--name)
* [`resource_type`](#-deferred_resources--resource_type)
* [`resources`](#-deferred_resources--resources)

##### <a name="-deferred_resources--default_options"></a>`default_options`

A Hash of options to be used for all resources.

Default value: `{}`

##### <a name="-deferred_resources--log_level"></a>`log_level`

Valid values: `alert`, `crit`, `debug`, `notice`, `emerg`, `err`, `info`, `warning`

Set the message log level for notifications.

Default value: `warning`

##### <a name="-deferred_resources--mode"></a>`mode`

Valid values: `enforcing`, `warning`

`enforcing` => Actually add the resource to the catalog post-compilation
`warning`   => Tell the user what would be done but do not actually alter
               the catalog.

Default value: `warning`

##### <a name="-deferred_resources--name"></a>`name`

namevar

Unique name for this resource.

##### <a name="-deferred_resources--resource_type"></a>`resource_type`

Valid values: `%r{.+}`

The type of Puppet resource that will be passed in :resources

##### <a name="-deferred_resources--resources"></a>`resources`

A Hash or Array of resources to add to the catalog.

